documentation.md, before:

# Documentation
## Table of contents

1. [Setup and Docker](#set-up)
2. [Django](#django)
3. [Testing](#testing)
4. [Virtual Machine](#virtual-machine)
## Set up

1. Download Docker

    - Documentation and links for this can be found at https://docs.docker.com/desktop/.

2. After Docker is installed, pull this git repository and cd into this directory in your terminal.

3. run the following in your terminal: 
    ```
            docker-compose up
    ```

4. On your browser, go to the webpage http://localhost:8000/ and the website should then show.

### Docker brief summary

Docker is used to ensure that the application works the same no matter which computer it is ran on. It does this by creating it's own environment on your computer. This includes an operating system (in this case it's Linux Alpine). 

It will then download all dependencies using that operating system. The dependencies are outlined in requirements.txt. 

The command in part 3 builds, recreates, starts and attaches to containers for a service. This is outlined in the docker-compose.tml file. If the container and images already exists it will just run the command outlined in the file which is:

```
python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000
```

More information on docker-compose can be found [here.](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/up/)


Anytime you are downloading a new dependency, you will need to add it to requirements.txt and run the command in section 3. <mark> TBC </mark>

## Django

## Testing

Application testing is important when making changes to the application to make sure we don't inadvertantly create bugs in the application. 

To do this, make sure you're in the root directory and run the following command:

```
python manage.py test
```

This will run all tests in the testing folder and give the results within the console. This will be run locally for now. I will look into running it through the Docker container.

## Virtual Machine

1. To connect to the virtual machine with VS code, we first need to download the private key and store it in 
/Users/\<username>/.ssh
(You can show hidden directories by typing Command + Shift + . )

2. Open VS code and download the extension 'Remote Development'.
3. Press the green icon at the very bottom left of the screen, and then in the dropdown press on 'Open SSH configuration file.
4. Edit the configuration file to look like the following:

```
Host ubuntuVM16
    HostName ipa-017.ucd.ie
    User student
    IdentityFile <Path to private key>
```
5.  Save the file and then in the same dropdown, click on 'Connect to host'
6. Choose the host named 'ubuntuVM16' and then type in the passphrase.

Commit message:

Documentation updated Solved issue for Mac user when hooking up VS-Code with VM via SSH

documentation.md, after:

# Documentation
## Table of contents

1. [Setup and Docker](#set-up)
2. [Django](#django)
3. [Testing](#testing)
4. [Virtual Machine](#virtual-machine)

## Set up

1. Download Docker

    - Documentation and links for this can be found at https://docs.docker.com/desktop/.

2. After Docker is installed, pull this git repository and cd into this directory in your terminal.

3. run the following in your terminal: 
    ```
            docker-compose up
    ```

4. On your browser, go to the webpage http://localhost:8000/ and the website should then show.

### Docker brief summary

Docker is used to ensure that the application works the same no matter which computer it is ran on. It does this by creating it's own environment on your computer. This includes an operating system (in this case it's Linux Alpine). 

It will then download all dependencies using that operating system. The dependencies are outlined in requirements.txt. 

The command in part 3 builds, recreates, starts and attaches to containers for a service. This is outlined in the docker-compose.tml file. If the container and images already exists it will just run the command outlined in the file which is:

```
python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000
```

More information on docker-compose can be found [here.](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/up/)


Anytime you are downloading a new dependency, you will need to add it to requirements.txt and run the command in section 3. <mark> TBC </mark>

## Django

## Testing

Application testing is important when making changes to the application to make sure we don't inadvertantly create bugs in the application. 

To do this, make sure you're in the root directory and run the following command:

```
python manage.py test
```

This will run all tests in the testing folder and give the results within the console. This will be run locally for now. I will look into running it through the Docker container.

## Virtual Machine
### Connecting VS-Code to the VM using SSH

1. To connect to the virtual machine with VS code, we first need to download the private key "vm-team-16-tt.key" and store it in /Users/\<username>/.ssh (For Mac users: show hidden directories by pressing Command + Shift + . )
2. Open VS code and install the extension 'Remote Development'.
3. Press the green icon at the very bottom left of the screen, and then in the dropdown press on 'Open SSH configuration file.
4. Edit the configuration file to look like the following:

```
Host ubuntuVM16
    HostName ipa-017.ucd.ie
    User student
    IdentityFile <Path to private key>
```
5. Save the file and then in the same dropdown, click on 'Connect to host'
6. Choose the host named 'ubuntuVM16' and then type in the passphrase.

### Solved: issues for Mac users when hooking up VS-Code with the VM 
The passphrase is requested every time VS-Code is opened. To solve this issue let's first enable the login terminal to get more information about the underlying problem:
1. In VS-Code go to View -> Command Palette
2. Type in SSH and you'll see some settings options for SSH appear
3. Select "Remote-SSH: Settings" (a page opens up with loads of settings for SSH)
4. Scroll down to towards the end and look for a setting "Remote.SSH: Show Login Terminal"
5. Tick this option
6. Try to connect again to the VM and see what's being outputed in the login terminal. You might see something like this:
![SSH login error on Mac](/doc_images/Mac_ssh_key_issue.jpeg)
7. Go to /Users/\<username>/.ssh directory and right click on the private key "vm-team-16-tt.key" and open "Get Info". In "Sharing & Permissions" only assign the "read & write" privelege to your own user set all other listed users to "No Access". In my case I had to delete the "staff" group as it wouldn't allow me to assign "No Access" to this group.
8. Now the problem should be solved and you're good to go.
